# Finishing addon by fetching data.

So far we have built an addon with a single component that does very little. Yesterday we looked at testing our addon and linking it to exsting projects. Today, we will use a service to provide our component with data. To start let's generate a service.

```sh
ember g service feed
```

Let's talk for a second about what we want our service to do.

  1. Accept a parameter to specify which Daily Drip feed we want.
  2. If we already have the results in our feed and the topic is unchanged, return existing results to the component
  3. Otherwise fetch an rss feed from daily drip.
  4. Convert the feed to JSON
  5. return a results object to the component.
    * This should be an object with two properties:
      * title - title of the rss feed
      * feed - content of the rss feed

Ok, so I think that lays it out pretty nicely. We can start by testing from the bottom of our list up. We know that we will have a return object with a title and feed properties. Let's set up a failing test for that.

In `tests/unit/services/feed-test.js` we can add our test. Here will will create our service, set a title property and a feed property. Then, we will get our results property and test that it looks like we want.

```JavaScript
import { moduleFor, test } from 'ember-qunit';

moduleFor('service:feed', 'Unit | Service | feed', {
});


test('we have a computed property that returns an object with the title and feed properties.', function(assert) {
  const service = this.subject();

  // First let's test that the results returns an object that has a title and feed
  // property which has a value of the title and feed property of the service.
  // start by setting the title and the feed.
  service.set('title', 'Service Title');
  service.set('feed', [1, 2, 3]);
  const returnObj = service.get('results');

  assert.equal(returnObj.title, 'Service Title');
  assert.notEqual(returnObj.feed.indexOf(1), -1);
  assert.equal(returnObj.feed.length, 3);
});
```

Now, we have a failing test, let's make it pass. We just need to add a simple computed property to `addon/services/feed.js`. I will go ahead and add default values for the title and feed as well. The title will be a string pending and the feed will be an empty array. The results will be a computed property whose keys are title and feed and just returns those values formatted as we expect.

```JavaScript
import Ember from 'ember';

export default Ember.Service.extend({
  title: 'pending...',
  feed: [],
  results: Ember.computed('title', 'feed', function(){
    return { title: this.get('title'), feed: this.get('feed') };
  })
});
```

Let's talk about that test we wrote. You might say, "Hey, you are just testing a computed property, that's silly Ember has tests for computed properties in the framework". It is true that Ember has tests for computed properties in the framework, but we aren't really just testing a computed property, we are testing our app's logic. Tests are most useful when they identify how something should work so that we don't break that functionality as we develop further on our app. In this case, the `results` object is going to be the value that is returned from our service so we need a test that specifies how that data should look. When our component starts consuming this service, it should be able to reliably expect that the object that it gets back will always look the same.

Let's make one more change here. Let's use ES2015 Object destructuring to assign `Service` and `computed` variables so that we don't have to have Ember before everything. We are just saying get the `computed`, and `Service` properties from the Ember object and assign them as the variables `computed` and `Service`. Then we can remove `Ember` before `computed` and `Service` in our service. If we are so inclined, we can also get the `get` method from Ember rather than `this` and pass in the context. The only functional difference here is that `Ember.get` (and `Ember.set` for that matter) doesn't care if you are dealing with a plain JavaScript object or an Ember Object, whereas, `this.get` and `this.set` are specific to Ember objects.

```JavaScript
import Ember from 'ember';

const { computed,
        get,
        Service } = Ember;

export default Service.extend({
  title: 'pending...',
  feed: [],
  results: computed('title', 'feed', function(){
    return { title: get(this, 'title'), feed: get(this, 'feed') };
  })
});
```

Now, we need a method on our service that returns this object, or populates it if it is empty. It should also populate the results feed, if the topic has changed. For the sake of speeding things along, let's go ahead and create three failing tests, instead of doing them one by one. The first test, will test that if we have results in our feed and our topic matches, we don't call a setFeed function. The second test will test that if their are no feed results, we do call a setFeed function. Finally, we will test if we have results, but we pass in a different topic, we still call the setFeed function.

```JavaScript
test('If we already have a results in our feed we return then without calling get setFeed Function', function(assert) {
  const service = this.subject();

  service.set('title', 'Service Title');
  service.set('feed', [1, 2, 3]);
  service.set('topic', 'ember');

  service.set('setFeed', () => {
    return { title: 'Wrong Title', feed: ['wrong', 'feed' ] };
  });

  let results = service.getFeed('ember');

  assert.equal(results.title, 'Service Title');
  assert.notEqual(results.feed.indexOf(1), -1);
  assert.equal(results.feed.length, 3);
});

test('If we do not already have a results in our feed we call a setFeed Function which returns them', function(assert) {
  const service = this.subject();

  service.set('title', 'pending');
  service.set('feed', []);
  service.set('topic', 'ember');

  service.set('setFeed', () => {
    return { title: 'Right Feed', feed: ['right', 'feed' ] };
  });

  let results = service.getFeed('ember');

  assert.equal(results.title, 'Right Feed');
  assert.notEqual(results.feed.indexOf('right'), -1);
  assert.equal(results.feed.length, 2);
});

test('Even if we already have a results in our feed, if we pass in a differnt feed we still call a setFeed Function which returns the new feed', function(assert) {
  const service = this.subject();

  service.set('title', 'pending');
  service.set('feed', [1, 2, 3]);
  service.set('topic', 'ember');

  service.set('setFeed', () => {
    return { title: 'Right Feed', feed: ['right', 'feed' ] };
  });

  let results = service.getFeed('elm');

  assert.equal(results.title, 'Right Feed');
  assert.notEqual(results.feed.indexOf('right'), -1);
  assert.equal(results.feed.length, 2);
});
```

Since I just pasted these in, you can inspect them more closely on github, I'll link to them in the episode resources. These test are certainly a little more verbose than they have to be, but hopefully they are equally obvious with what they are doing. Making these test pass is really simple. Back in our service, we will just add a getFeed function with a simple conditional that satisfies our requirements and we will return the appropriate item. Finally, since we are returning the setFeed function, we will create an empty function there.

```JavaScript
setFeed(){
},
getFeed(topic){
  if(get(this, 'feed').length > 0 && topic === this.get('topic')){
    return get(this, 'results');
  } else {
    return this.setFeed(topic);
  }
}
```

Now, let's partially implement the `setFeed` function. We aren't going to complete it, but we can get a good start. We know, based on what we have written so far that it will take one parameter, the topic, and it will return the `results` computed property. We aren't going to get into the details today, but we will start by learning one really helpful tool that we will need to make this function work: Promises. Ember comes with RSVP bundled in as the tool for creating promises. If you don't know much about JavaScript promises, there are a lot of great resources online to get you up to speed. Essentially, a promise is just an object that helps you deal with asynchronous code which has a `then` method. The promise exists in one of three states, "pending", "fulfilled", or "rejected". To create a new promise in Ember world, we will first import RSVP from 'rsvp'.

```JavaScript
import RSVP from 'rsvp';
```

Then, (get it? "then"?) you just instantiate your new promise. This is what your setFeed function will return. So, just type "return new RSVP.Promise". We will pass in resolve and reject. And finally, we can write whatever async code we need to write. For success we will "resolve" with the value that we want to return, or for failure, we will "reject" with an error object and a message.

```JavaScript
setFeed(topic){
  return new RSVP.Promise((resolve, reject) =>{
    if (/*all is well*/) {
      resolve(this.get('results'));
    } else {
      reject(new Error(`Failed!!!!!!!!`));
    }
  });
}
```

The only thing left to do here is to implement our setFeed function. But, that will have to wait for tomorrow. That is it for today. We looked at mapping out a plan for a service, tdd'ing the service, Object destructuring, flavors of `get` and `set`, and finally Promises. Moving forward we still need to fetch and populate our addon with the rss data from daily drip, we will fill out our readme, and we will publish our addon.

# Resources

* [tildeio/rsvp.js](https://github.com/tildeio/rsvp.js/)
* [Promises/A+](https://promisesaplus.com/)
* [Service tests](http://github.com/baroquon) <--- need link
