# Solution and Prep

## Solution

In the last drip we were tasked with converting a few simple observers into computed properties. Let's look at how we can accomplish that.

The first observer looked like this:

```JavaScript
formHasUpload: Ember.observer('upload', function() {
  if(Ember.isPresent(this.get('upload'))) {
    this.set('needsUpload', false);
  }
})
```

This is a fairly straight forward port. As we can see, we are watching the `upload` property and if it exists, we are setting a property called `needsUpload` to false. We can assume that `needsUpload` defaults to true. To get this work without an observer, all we need to do is change `needsUpload` to be a computed property.

```JavaScript
needsUpload: Ember.computed('upload', function(){
  return Ember.isBlank(this.get('upload'));
})
```

The second example is essentially the same as the first.

```JavaScript
resetOnSave: Ember.observer('resetChecks', function() {
  let reset = this.get('resetChecks');
  if(reset){
    this.set('isSelected', false);
  }
})
```

It observes the `resetChecks` property and if it is truthy, it sets `isSelected` to false. Again, all we really need to do is change `isSelected` to be a computed property that has `resetChecks` as its key.

```JavaScript
isSelected: Ember.computed('resetChecks', function(){
  return !this.get('resetChecks');
})
```

These examples were obviously pretty simple, but they were embarrassingly similar to real life observers that I have uncovered in the wild. In most cases, if you find an observer, even a more complicated one, you can generally untangle it to take advantage of Ember's lifecycle hooks and computed properties.

## Prep

This week we are going to look at some more devops part of the Ember process, namely, fastboot and simple process for deploying your app. Here are some links that will give you a head start in that direction.

* [EmberJS on Heroku](https://www.heroku.com/emberjs)
* [Heroku Buildpack EmberJS](https://github.com/heroku/heroku-buildpack-emberjs)
* [Ember Fastboot](https://ember-fastboot.com/)
* [EmberCLI Deploy](http://ember-cli-deploy.com/)
