# The Model Hook and Data Retrieval

Yesterday we set up some components and actions in our contact-manager Ember application. We are going to continue working on that app today by discussing and setting up a Contact model and and adapter that will help us connect our Ember application to a server.

## The Ember Stuff

If you remember back in Drip 001.4, we set up a model hook in our contacts route that looked like this:

```JavaScript
export default Ember.Route.extend({
  model(){
    let contact1 = { id: 1, firstName: 'Josh', lastName: 'Adams', email: 'josh@dailydrip.com'};
    let contact2 = { id: 2, firstName: 'Adam', lastName: 'Dill', email: 'adam@dailydrip.com'};

    return [contact1, contact2];
  }
});
```

In Ember the model hook on the route attaches whatever data it returns to controller. This data is accessible in the controller as `this.get('model')`. In the example above, we set up our model hook to return an array of two JavaScript objects. Plain JavaScript objects and arrays work fine here. We can actually just make ajax calls in the model hook to our server and return the payload. On occasion, you might need to structure your app that way. However, in most cases we will benefit by using Ember Data. Ember Data gives us a more ergonomic means of getting, updating, and deleting server data. First, we would set up a model and an adapter (we'll walk through that in the next video drip). Then we have access to Ember Data's store methods. An example would look like this:

```JavaScript
model(){
  return this.store.findAll('contact');
}
```
The `store` is a [service](https://guides.emberjs.com/v2.6.0/applications/services/) that is automatically injected into Ember routes and controllers. We can see how it works as a service by looking in a component. If we were to add the following to a component:

```js
contacts: Ember.computed(function(){
  const store = this.get('store');
  return store.findAll('contact');  
}).volatile()
```

Then, we called `{{#each contacts as |c|}}{{c.firstName}}{{/each}}` in the component's template we would get an error.

```console
Uncaught TypeError: Cannot read property 'findAll' of undefined
```

The `store` is not automatically injected into components. However, if we change the component above to look like this:

```js
store: Ember.inject.service(), // the name of the service is inferred from the property name
contacts: Ember.computed(function(){
  const store = this.get('store');
  return store.findAll('contact');  
}).volatile()
```

This will work. The Store provides a [single source of truth](https://guides.emberjs.com/v2.6.0/models/#toc_the-store-and-a-single-source-of-truth) for your data. This helps prevent fetching the same data twice and prevents having the same data living across different components getting out of sync.

The store provides several methods for retrieving data. We'll spend the rest of our time here going over them. As well as documenting a few gotchas that you might run into.

* `this.store.findAll('contact')` - returns a promise that should resolve to all records of a contact type.
* `this.store.peekAll('contact')` - returns all records of a contact type that are already loaded in the local store.
* `this.store.findRecord('contact', 1)` - returns a promise that should resolve to a contact record with an id of 1
* `this.store.peekRecord('contact', 1)` - returns a contact record with an id of 1 if it is present in the store

The other two primary methods of data retrieval are the query methods.

* `this.store.query('contacts', queryObject)` - this sends the second parameter, an object, to the server as query parameters and returns a promise that should resolve to a RecordArray
* `this.store.queryRecord('contacts', queryObject)` - this sends the query object to the server as query parameters and can be used when we are querying a unique property that should only return one result, an obvious example being a unique email.

There are several subtile differences in these methods that might not be obvious at first. We'll go over a few.

### Live array

Using `this.store.findAll('contact')` returns a live array of contacts from the store. So, if you add an object to that value in the store, the array will automatically update with the new object present. If, however, you use `this.store.query('contact', {firstName: 'bob'})` you do not get a live array. Even if you create a new record that matches the query, your array will not be updated to include the new object.

### find vs peek

By default, if you use `this.store.findRecord('contact', 1)` and a contact record with an id of 1 is present in your store, the promise will resolve with the local version of the record. In the background, Ember will still make an API call to your server and will update the data when the api call completes. By contrast, `this.store.peekRecord('contact', 1)` will immediately return either the record from the store, or it will return null. A `peek` method will never fire an API call. If you don't want `findRecord` to fire a background reload of data that is already present, you can set the `shouldBackgroundReloadRecord()` method on your adapter to return `false`.

### Route's model hook

If you are transitioning to a new route and you pass in an object to the transition method, the model hook on the route you are entering will not fire. Ember assumes that it has all the information it needs to complete the request without using the model hook. For example, using the link-to helper:

```hbs
{{#link-to 'contacts.contact' contact}}
  {{contact.firstName}}
{{/link-to}}
```
Here, Ember will use the `contact` object that was passed in, as the model without firing the model hook on the router. If we want to force the model hook to fire, we should pass in the `id` of the object, rather than the object itself. Example:

```hbs
{{#link-to 'contacts.contact' contact.id}}
  {{contact.firstName}}
{{/link-to}}
```

## Prep for moving forward

That is it for now, tomorrow we will put some of this into practice by hooking our app to a server and implementing a model and adapter.

I created two very basic server-side apps that will provide a suitable backend for Ember.

[Node/Express Server](https://github.com/baroquon/contact_manager_backend_node)
[Elixir/Phoenix Server](https://github.com/baroquon/contact_manager_backend)

Both of these are very simple server implementations and both will default to running at [http://localhost:4000](http://localhost:4000). As has been mentioned before, Ember is an opinionated framework. One of the consequences of this is that if you do things Ember's way, it can be very easy. If however, you try to go against an Ember convention, Ember can make things difficult for you. One of the conventions that Ember has embraced is the [json api spec](http://jsonapi.org/). Both of the servers listed above are serving JSON API compliant payloads.

For tomorrow it would be helpful to have one (or both) of those apps cloned and running locally.
