# Solution and Prep

This week we are going to take a bit more in depth look at Ember routes and components. There wont be a lot of implementation this week, it will mostly be overview. The following week we will put these principles into action by building some Ember apps. Today we'll see a solution to the previous exercise, as well as a few resources to help prepare you for the upcoming drips.

## Solution

In the last drip, you were asked to create an index route that is the child of contacts. This part was relatively straight forward. All you needed to do was create a template in `app/templates/contacts/index.hbs` and add the following line:

```html
<h3>Welcome to the contacts index route</h3>
```

The index route is the default path so, we didn't need to explicitly modify the router.js or the `routes/contacts/index.js` route.

Next you were asked to create an index template. Once again, no route or router modifications were necessary, only the creation of an `app/templates/index.hbs` and inclusion of the specified text:

```html
<h2>Welcome to our Contacts App!</h2>
```

The final portion of the exercise was to create two links to our index and contacts routes using the link-to helper. In `app/templates/application.hbs` it might look like this:

```hbs
    {{link-to 'Home' 'index'}} {{link-to 'Contacts' 'contacts'}}
    {{outlet}}
```

The link-to helper comes in two variants. An inline version, as shown above, and a block version. The block version would look like the following:

```hbs
{{#link-to 'index'}}
  Home
{{/link-to}}
```

## Preparatory Readings

This week we are going to focus on diving a little deeper with Routes and Components. The most useful resource for understanding Ember is the Docs and the code. With that in mind, here are some links to Ember's Guide and API Docs.

* [Ember Guide's Introduction to Routing](https://guides.emberjs.com/v2.6.0/routing/)
* [Ember.Router API Docs](http://emberjs.com/api/classes/Ember.Router.html)
* [Ember.Route API Docs](http://emberjs.com/api/classes/Ember.Route.html)
* [Ember.Component API](http://emberjs.com/api/classes/Ember.Component.html)
