# Exercise

To build on the information that we went over this week, let's return to our contact-manager app one last time. Let's create a new show route that is a child of our existing contacts route. When linking to the new route use a `link-to` that forces the new `contacts.show` to fire the route's model hook. Finally, we will add an `address` model, that has a one-to-many relationship with a `contact`.

There are a few things that need to happen:

* Generate a `contacts.show` route
* In the `contacts` template, add the appropriate link-to and make sure you have a {{yield}} in the template
* In the new route fetch the correct record (hint: you will need to pass in `params` to your model hook e.g. model(params){...})
* Your new address model should have a `street1`, `street2`, `city`, `state`, `zip`
* In the `show` template display all properties of the contact as well as all of the contact's addresses and all the address fields.

## Resources
* [Ember Serializers](https://guides.emberjs.com/v2.6.0/models/customizing-serializers/)
* [Ember route action helper](https://github.com/dockyard/ember-route-action-helper)
  Earlier we sent an action from a component to a controller. This made sense in our case as we were modifying query params. However, in many cases it makes sense to send actions from your component to the route rather than a controller. Until routable components land we need a little help(er) for that. This addon makes it possible to call route actions from a component.
* [Talking with Tom Dale about Ember FastBoot and the Return of Scrappy JavaScript by Matthew Creager](https://blog.heroku.com/archives/2016/4/5/live_at_emberconf_tom_dale_talks_about_ember_fastboot)
* [JavaScript Air - JavaScript Frameworks: Ember](https://javascriptair.com/episodes/2016-04-27/)
